In one of the remote streets of Moscow, in a gray house with white columns, a mezzanine and a crooked balcony, once lived a lady, a widow, surrounded by numerous servants. Her sons served in St. Petersburg, her daughters got married; she rarely traveled and lived out the last years of her stingy and bored old age in seclusion. Her day, bleak and stormy, had long passed; but her evening was blacker than night. Of all her servants, the most remarkable person was the janitor Gerasim, a man of twelve inches tall, built like a hero and deaf-mute from birth. The lady took him from the village, where he lived alone, in a small hut, separate from his brothers, and was considered almost the most serviceable draft peasant. Gifted with extraordinary strength, he worked for four people  the matter was argued in his hands, and it was fun to look at him when he either plowed and, leaning with huge palms on the plough, it seemed, alone, without the help of a horse, cut the elastic chest of the earth, or on Peters day he acted so crushingly with a scythe that even a young man to sweep the birch forest from the roots down, or he deftly and nonstop thrashed with a three-pronged flail, and the oblong and hard muscles of his shoulders descended and rose like a lever. The constant silence gave solemn importance to his frantic work. He was a nice man, and if it hadnt been for his misfortune, any girl would have willingly married him... But Gerasim was brought to Moscow, they bought him boots, sewed a caftan for the summer, a sheepskin coat for the winter, gave him a broom and a shovel in his hands and identified him as a janitor. He did not like his new life very much at first. Since childhood, he has been accustomed to field work, to rural life. Alienated by his misfortune from the community of people, he grew mute and powerful, like a tree growing on a fertile land... Resettled in the city, he did not understand what was happening to him he was bored and perplexed, as a young, healthy bull, who had just been taken from a field where juicy grass grew up to his belly, was perplexed  they took him, put him on a railway carriage  and so, showering his fat body with smoke from with sparks, then with wavy steam, they are rushing him now, rushing with a bang and a squeal, but God knows where they are rushing to! Gerasims occupation of his new position seemed to him a joke after the hard work of the peasants; in half an hour everything was ready for him, and again he would stop in the middle of the yard and stare open-mouthed at all those passing by, as if wanting to get them to solve his mysterious situation, then suddenly he would go somewhere into a corner and, throwing his broom and shovel far away, throw himself face down on the ground and lie for hours motionless on his chest, like a trapped animal. But a person gets used to everything, and Gerasim finally got used to city life. He didnt have much to do.; his whole duty was to keep the yard clean, bring a barrel of water twice a day, carry and chop firewood for the kitchen and house, but not to let strangers in and watch at night. And I must say, he diligently fulfilled his duty: there were never any splinters or litter in his yard; whether a broken nag, a water cart, given under his command, would get stuck somewhere with a barrel in a dirty season, he would only move his shoulder - and not only the cart, but the horse itself would push off; whether there was firewood when he starts stabbing, his axe rings like glass, and shards and logs fly in all directions; and as for strangers, so after he caught two thieves one night, bumped their foreheads against each other, so much so that even if you didnt take them to the police later, everyone in the neighborhood began to respect him very much; even during the day, those who passed by were no longer scammers, but just strangers. at the sight of the formidable janitor, they waved and shouted at him, as if he could hear their screams. With the rest of the household, Gerasim was in a relationship not that friendly  they were afraid of him  but short: he considered them to be his own. They communicated with him by signs, and he understood them, followed all orders exactly, but he also knew his rights, and no one dared to sit in his place at the table. In general, Gerasim was of a strict and serious disposition, he loved order in everything; even the roosters did not dare to fight with him, otherwise it would be a disaster! He sees it, immediately grabs it by the legs, turns the wheel ten times in the air and throws it apart. There were geese in the ladys yard, too; but the goose, it is known, is an important and prudent bird; Gerasim felt respect for them, followed them and fed them; he himself looked like a sedate gander. They gave him a cubbyhole over the kitchen; he arranged it for himself, according to his taste, built in it a bed of oak planks on four blocks, a truly heroic bed; a hundred pounds could be put on it  it would not bend; there was a hefty chest under the bed; in the corner there was a table of the same strong quality, and near the table there was a chair for three legs, but so sturdy and squat that Gerasim himself would pick it up, drop it and grin. The closet was locked with a lock that resembled a roll in its appearance, only black; Gerasim always carried the key to this lock on his belt. He didnt like to be visited. So a year passed, at the end of which a small incident happened to Gerasim. The old lady, with whom he lived in the janitors, followed ancient customs in everything and kept numerous servants; in her house there were not only laundresses, seamstresses, carpenters, tailors and dressmakers, there was even one saddler, he was also considered a veterinarian and a doctor for people, there was a home doctor for the mistress, there was Finally, there is a shoemaker named Kapiton Klimov, a drunkard named Gorky. Klimov considered himself an offended and unappreciated being, an educated and metropolitan man who would not live in Moscow, idle, in some backwater, and if he drank, as he himself expressed himself with deliberation and knocking on his chest, then he was already drinking out of grief. One day the lady and her head butler, Gavrila, talked about him, a man who, judging by his yellow eyes and duck nose alone, fate itself seemed to have determined to be a commanding person. The lady regretted the spoiled morality of Kapiton, who had just been found somewhere on the street the day before. Well, Gavrila, she suddenly began, shouldnt we marry him off, what do you think? Maybe hell settle down.  Why not get married, sir! It is possible, sir, Gavrila replied, and it will be very good, sir.  Yes, but who will marry him?  Of course, sir. However, as you wish, sir. Still, he may be needed for something, so to speak; you cant throw him out of a dozen.  Does he seem to like Tatiana? Gavrila wanted to object, but pressed his lips together. - yes!.. let him woo Tatiana, the lady decided, sniffing the tobacco with pleasure, do you hear? Im listening, sir, Gavrila said and left. Returning to his room (it was in the wing and was almost completely cluttered with wrought-iron chests), Gavrila first sent his wife out, and then sat down by the window and thought. The unexpected order of the lady apparently puzzled him. Finally he got up and ordered Kapiton to be called. Kapiton appeared... But before we pass on their conversation to the readers, we consider it useful to tell in a few words who this Tatiana was, whom Kapiton had to marry, and why the ladys command confused the butler. Tatiana, who, as we said above, was a laundress (however, as a skilled and learned laundress, she was entrusted with only fine linen), was a woman of about twenty years old, small, thin, blond, with moles on her left cheek. Moles on the left cheek are revered in Russia as a bad omen  a foreshadowing of an unhappy life... Tatiana could not boast of her fate. From an early age, she was kept in a black body; she worked for two, but she never saw any affection; she was poorly dressed, she received the smallest salary; She didnt have any relatives anyway: one old housekeeper, left behind for unfitness in the village, was her uncle, and her other uncles were peasants, thats all. She was once reputed to be a beauty, but her beauty soon slipped away. She was of a very humble disposition, or, better to say, intimidated, she felt complete indifference to herself, was mortally afraid of others; she only thought about how to finish her work on time, never spoke to anyone and trembled at the very name of the lady, although she almost did not know her by sight. When Gerasim was brought from the village, she almost froze with horror at the sight of his huge figure, tried in every possible way not to meet him, even blinked, sometimes when she happened to run past him, hurrying from home to the laundry. At first Gerasim did not pay much attention to her, then he began to laugh when he came across her, then he began to look at her, and finally he did not take his eyes off her at all. He fell in love with her; whether by the meek expression of her face, or by the timidity of her movements, God knows! One day she was making her way through the yard, carefully lifting the starched ladys jacket on her outstretched fingers... Someone suddenly grabbed her elbow hard; she turned around and screamed: Gerasim was standing behind her. Laughing stupidly and humming affectionately, he handed her a gingerbread cockerel with gold leaf on its tail and wings. She wanted to refuse, but he forcibly shoved it right into her hand, shook his head, walked away and, turning around, once again mumbled something very friendly to her. From that day on, he wouldnt let her rest: wherever she went, he was right there, walking towards her, smiling, mumbling, waving his hands, suddenly pulling the ribbon out of his bosom and thrusting it at her, clearing the dust in front of her with a